#summary Literature Study

= Introduction =

Before the real work, anything done by the predecessors should be studied and try any improvement based on their work, if their license allow.


= Details =

The following project falls into two categories: pure Othello or AI upon Othello. The later one is for sure far more interesting for research purpose.


Related projects:
  * http://code.google.com/p/othello-java
  It has a graphical UI and a build script written in Ants, using GPL v2 license.
  * http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~bradw/Othello/
  An AI Othello applet without source code. Could be used as UI/Logic checking comparison.
  * http://www.ics.uci.edu/~frost/cs171/OthelloProject.html
  It is an assignment of an AI course with a graphical Othello game source given.
  * http://david.currie.name/java-othello
  This page teaches the rules of Othello with illustration.(ugly green)
  * http://home.datacomm.ch/t_wolf/tw/misc/reversi/index.html
  A graphical applet game with a long history. Worth of reading but with rather limiting license. Don't read this if you are tending to steal from his technical ideas.
  * http://members.cox.net/thomas.aylesworth/games/othello.html
  Just another applet with AI for playing.
  * http://www.owlnet.rice.edu/~comp212/01-spring/assignments/othello/ *Good*
  Another AI assignment with better OO concept in mind. Provided a class diagram and some source code. Advises the use of alpha-beta pruning with min-max algorithm. Moreover, at the end the program(AI) would be submitted to a Tournament for competing with other students.
  * http://welcome.to/reversi-othello *Good*
  This is a good one which described some AI techniques. With some links to the rules. Mentioned some well-known Othello programs that may be possibly playable with each other.
  * [http://algoval.essex.ac.uk:8080/othello/html/Othello.html IEEE CIS Games TC Othello Competition] *Expert*
  An IEEE competition with a link to a paper and mentioned some more advanced algorithms. The keyword "Othello Competition" will further result in more advanced AI algorithms or ideas.